
AlphaPal 1.93  (formerly Bright/Brighter)

AlphaPal is a hacked version of the 'bright' palettizer, which finds an optimal R,G,B,A palette for any 
32-bit .TGA input image containing an alpha channel, and outputs it as an 8-bit .BMP file.

Mainly for the benefit of the Unreal Tournament PSX2 codebase (the PSX2 supports palettized alpha natively.)

Command line options:

 See also the manual for 'bright'; alpha-specific options include:

  -alphatest     write a sample rendering of [alpha*color] on a black background.
  -alpha         output a sample image with only the alpha, as greyscale. 
  -alphablue     output a sample image with alpha in the blue color channel. 	
  -depth RGBA    limit the initial sampling depth to r,g,b,a bits for the color channels.


Notes on using AlphaPal for font textures:

 It may be intuitive to make an alpha mask by drawing antialiased characters on a dark background, and reusing
 the antialiased outlines as your alpha channel;  keep in mind that when rendered, the end result is brightness times alpha,
 i.e. in theory the alpha takes care of the antialiasing, and having the outlines already antialiased will bias all the
 colors to be darker. The result is characters that don't look very antialiased at all.
 Ideally your font doesn't fade into black at the edges, but lets the alpha channel take care of all that.

Instructions:

- Create a 4-channel texture in photoshop - R,G,B and an alpha layer;
- Save it out as a 32-bit .TGA targa file
- Run AlphaPal on it:

AlphaPal  alphatest.tga   -o
( -o stands for overwrite any previous leaves.bmp files that may exist in
the current folder )
The output .bmp is the one you then refer to in the skins/materials section
of your decoration's script file.

To see what happens with the alpha channel in the palettized picture you can
make a test image as follows:

AlphaPal  alphatest.tga   -o -alpha

This will output only the alpha, with the exact same color resolution (read: banding) that the full-color
output will have.

Depending on the image in the alpha channel, having palettized alpha greatly limits the available hues. 
To trade off alpha smoothness against color resolution, try the -depth RGBA   options as in:

This will cause banded alpha but better color depth:

AlphaPal  alphatest.tga   -o -depth 7772 

This will improve alpha smoothness at the cost of color richness:

AlphaPal  alphatest.tga   -o -depth 5558 



- Erik de Neve
erik@epicgames.com



